A chatbot (also known as a talkbot, chatterbot, Bot, IM bot, interactive agent, or Artificial Conversational Entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatterbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler systems scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.Today, most chatbots are either accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites. Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.
Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published, which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge, sufficiently well that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the Introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.

ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of cue words or phrases in the input, and the output of corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate, because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
The classic historic early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include functional features such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).

One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML, which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (offline since 2015, materials can still be found from web archives).

According to Forrester (2015), AI will replace 16 percent of American jobs by the end of the decade.Chatbots have been used in applications such as customer service, sales and product education. However, a study conducted by Narrative Science in 2015 found that 80 percent of their respondents believe AI improves worker performance and creates jobs.[citation needed]

Application
See also: Virtual assistant

Aeromexico airline chatbot running on Facebook Messenger, March 2018
Messaging apps
Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps like Facebook Messenger (since 2016), WeChat (since 2013),WhatsApp, LiveChat, Kik, Slack, Line, Telegram, or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017.

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks and insurers, media and e-commerce companies, airlines and hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008 or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting for a sick leave.Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.

Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing such as toys.

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys intended to interact with children for educational purposes.

Chatbot creation
The process of creating a chatbot follows a pattern similar to the development of a web page or a mobile app. It can be divided into Design, Building, Analytics and Maintenance.

Design
The chatbot design is the process that defines the interaction between the user and the chatbot.The chatbot designer will define the chatbot personality, the questions that will be asked to the users, and the overall interaction.It can be viewed as a subset of the conversational design. In order to speed up this process, designers can use dedicated chatbot design tools, that allow for immediate preview, team collaboration and video export.An important part of the chatbot design is also centered around user testing. User testing can be performed following the same principles that guide the user testing of graphical interfaces.

Building
The process of building a chatbot can be divided into two main tasks: understanding the user's intent and producing the correct answer. The first task involves understanding the user input. In order to properly understand a user input in a free text form, a Natural Language Processing Engine can be used.The second task may involve different approaches depending on the type of the response that the chatbot will generate.

Analytics
The usage of the chatbot can be monitored in order to spot potential flaws or problems. It can also provide useful insights that can improve the final user experience.

Maintenance
To keep chatbots up to speed with changing company products and services, traditional chatbot development platforms require ongoing maintenance. This can either be in the form of an ongoing service provider or for larger enterprises in the form of an in-house chatbot training team.To eliminate these costs, some startups are experimenting with Artificial Intelligence to develop self-learning chatbots, particularly in Customer Service applications.

Chatbot development platforms
The process of building, testing and deploying chatbots can be done on cloud based chatbot development platforms offered by cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS) providers such as Yekaliva, Oracle Cloud Platform, SnatchBot and IBM Watson.These cloud platforms provide Natural Language Processing, Artificial Intelligence and Mobile Backend as a Service for chatbot development.

APIs
There are many APIs available for building your own chatbots, such as AARC.

Malicious use
Malicious chatbots are frequently used to fill chat rooms with spam and advertisements, by mimicking human behaviour and conversations or to entice people into revealing personal information, such as bank account numbers. They are commonly found on Yahoo! Messenger, Windows Live Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and other instant messaging protocols. There has also been a published report of a chatbot used in a fake personal ad on a dating service's website.

Time
 Don't even ask, Time is hard my friend (*sad*) this is corona time.

K J Somaiya College of Engineering 
KJSCE is one of the best engineering colleges in India, ranking in the top amongst B.Tech and M.Tech colleges for its excellent education.

KJSCE
KJSCE is one of the best engineering colleges in India, ranking in the top amongst B.Tech and M.Tech colleges for its excellent education.

good for engineering
85-90 percent students got internships in L&T. KJ Somaiya College of Engineering is a good college in infrastructure and placements. Placements: The college provides many opportunities for placements. Training and placement officer Mr Mahesh Patil is continuously working for the same.

government college
KJ Somaiya Institute of Management, A higher educational institute, KJ Somaiya Institute of Management was founded in the year 1981. It is a part of KJ Somaiya Trust and Somaiya Vidhyavihar. In 2013, the University Grants Commission declared it as an autonomous university.

btech
K.J. Somaiya College of Engineering is one of the best colleges. Placements: Around 75% of our entire batch got placed. The highest salary package offered was around 18.5 LPA, and the lowest salary package offered was 2.4 LPA. The average salary package offered was 5.5 LPA.

autonomous
MUMBAI: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the establishment of the Somaiya Vidyavihar University, making it the first private varsity with absolute freedom to decide its own fees and curriculum. ... The autonomous university can start operations from 2019-20

Which is better KJ Somaiya or SK Somaiya?
I'd suggest you to join SK rather than KJ (opposite of what people say) because you need time for self study which is not possible if you have to attend all the lectures in college and as I said if you wish to take bifocal teaching in SK is better, only drawback will be the crowd won't be as creamy as that of KJ

Our Vision
Our Founder, Padmabhushan Shri K. J. Somaiya founded Somaiya Vidyavihar on the 9th of September 1959, He later founded the Girivanvasi Pragati Mandal, The K J Somaiya Medical Trust, Girivanvasi Education Trust and sister institutions to make great citizens of India and the World, In the words of Swami Vivekananda, “We want that education by which character is formed, strength of mind is increased, the intellect expanded, and by which one can stand on one’s own feet.” We have now grown into a multi-disciplinary and multi-campus education institution with over 1500 faculty, and 38, 000 students.

Our History
In just five decades it has grown into a large educational complex with 34 institutions catering to diverse fields of education such as Humanities, Engineering, Education, Medicine, Management, Pure Sciences and Mass Communication, with more than 39000+ Students and 3000+ Faculties and staff on a throbbing 65 acre campus!
The Somaiya Vidyavihar Complex was founded in 1959 by late Shri K.J. Somaiya (1902-1999). Endowed with a sharp business acumen, a balanced perspective and a social bent of mind, Karamshibhai set up the Somaiya Trust in 1953 for furthering his dream of shaping young minds through quality education. For this purpose he bought a large area of land at Ghatkopar, then considered to be distant, meagrely populated.

Academic Year 2017 - 2018
Somaiya comprises 34 individual institutes dedicated in the streams of arts, sciences, management, engineering, medicine, humanities, philosophies and social sciences. including schools. Somaiya has 39000+ Students and 3000+ Faculties and staff. 

Computer Engineering | B.Tech (Comps)
Computer engineers are involved in the design of Computer-based systems to address highly specialized and specific application needs. The Department of Computer Engineering facilitates students to apply principles of Computer technology across a wide variety of fields for adapting to ever changing multidisciplinary converging technologies, The Department houses classrooms and laboratories with modern infrastructure to facilitate their learning. The Teaching-Learning-Evaluation paradigm is a mix of traditional as well as active learning pedagogy and use of contemporary Information and communications technology (ICT) tools. The academic ambience encourages research, development and innovation activities. Leadership and teamwork are induced for imbibing the ethical and professional attitude to enrich society. Computer engineers work in most industries, including the Computer, Aerospace, Telecommunications, Power production, Manufacturing, Defence services and Electronics industries.

Electronics Engineering | B.Tech. (ETRX)
Electronics is a very broad field that naturally partners with other disciplines to open up new Engineering avenues like Automation of Industrial Processes, Robotics and Machine Vision, Embedded Systems, Biomedical Engineering, IoT and Artificial Intelligence with Automotive Electronics (e-Vehicle), Due to rapid evolution in all the above fields, Engineers are required to possess proficiency in both hardware and software to access a full range of careers in technology for the betterment of mankind. In short, Electronics is required everywhere from toys to aircrafts.

Information Technology | B.Tech. ( IT)
Information Technology (IT) is a branch of engineering that develops technology to gather, process, control, store and disseminate information. IT cuts across every aspect of life, global interaction, multimedia conferencing, shopping on web, ATM, electronic data interchange, Video on demand etc. hereby binding information and society.
IT involves development of applications that churns and infers every data point in the diversified domain of Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security, Cloud Computing, Blockchain Technology, Application Development, IOT, etc. IT department is mandated towards focused delivery of the content by aligning curriculum and infrastructure to cater to emerging industry needs. Department aims at strengthening and preparing students for lifelong learning, research and successful adaptation of ever changing technology, which helps them to develop an ability to analyze, design and provide novel IT solutions for engineering problems. We also focus on building appropriate professional attitudes, ethics and social concern among students. This enables IT students to work as web/mobile application developer, software lead, software architect, cloud expert to cyber security and AI specialist.


Mechanical Engineering | B.Tech. (Mech)
Mechanical engineering department was started in the year 1983. B.Tech Programme in Mechanical Engineering got accredited five times by National Board of Accreditation (NBA), Delhi since 1998. However, four times under Tier-II category and first time under Tier-I (in 2019) category, while the institute has been awarded 'A' grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in 2017. The department imparts the skills and expertise in the areas of design, manufacturing and thermal sciences that are the backbone of most sectors of industry. The department is committed to provide quality education in mechanical engineering that enables students to achieve excellence in their field of specialization. It strives to ensure an academic ambience that is important for encouraging the culture of research, development and innovation amongst students.

The department also endeavours to inculcate in the students, the qualities of team spirit, leadership, communication skills and an aptitude for lifelong learning. This objective is achieved through the multidisciplinary mega-projects wherein the students get hands-on experience of working with tools and machines. Currently there are five such mega-project teams working in the department. The teams ORION, BAJA and ETA design and fabricate race car, all-terrain vehicle and fuel efficient vehicle respectively while team ROBOCON designs and fabricates special purpose robot. ONYX is the aeromodelling team of the institute which designs and fabricates the remote controlled aircraft. Since their inception these projects are being assessed at international events and students are consistently improving on the quality of their output. All these projects are sponsored by corporates with a partial financial support from the institute.

Ninad Mehendale
(2020).Facial emotion recognition using convolutional neural networks (FERC).Springer Nature Applied Sciences,3(2):1-8.https://doi.org/10.1007/s42452-020-2234-1.

Placements Cell
The training and placement cell provides placement services to students through campus interviews.Many multinational and well- known Indian conglomerates regularly visit KJSCE for campus placement every year. Training and placement cell motivates and prepares the students for the interviews and prospective workplaces.

Eligibility & Registration
All the students who expect to graduate from the institute by the end of academic year and are seeking employment may register for campus placement.
Campus Placement is a facility provided for the students.
Only those students who are interested for Placement should register. Only these registered students are allowed to participate in campus placement.
Only those students who are eligible as per the company’s criteria can register via the link sent on class group email address.
No Student will be entertained in CRP after the deadline of registration.

Information to be filled
All the information filled -in by the student in each of the registration form has to be true. If found Incorrect, the student will not be allowed for any placement activity of the college till the end of the academic year.
It is the responsibility of the student to check announcements/notices/updated information / shortlisted names etc. sent by the placement cell on class group email address.

Absenteeism
Once a student has registered for a company, it is mandatory for him/her to appear for all the selection process of that company unless rejected in midway by the company. Any student who withdraws deliberately in the middle of selection process he may be disallowed from placement till the end of the academic year.

Attire
Wearing formal attire and college ID card during the recruitment process is Mandatory.

Disciplinary action
Disciplinary action will be initiated against students involved in any unethical practices in any stage of CRP.

Resume
Students should submit the resume as per the template provided by the College.
The details of the resume have to be genuine. If any student found violating this rule, will not be allowed for the placement till the end of the academic year.
Students should mention all the skill set, interested area of working in resume.

Pre-Placement Talk (PPT)
Pre Placement Talk (PPT) is conducted by the organization explaining the students about the detailed job profile, service agreement etc. The students are requested to clarify all their doubts during this talk regarding CTC, Fixed pay, variable pay, service contract period etc.
All registered students must attend that company’s PPT.
Students are required to remain present at least 15 minutes before the scheduled time of PPT or aptitude test. Late comers will not be allowed to appear for the process this will be treated as absentee for the process.

Job Offers (UG)
Note: Offer means any formal communication from the company.

Once a candidate is selected through campus placement, the institute will not be held responsible if the offer is rescinded by the company for any reason whatsoever, however these students will be permitted to appear in the recruitment process of Companies visiting later.
An organization is offered a Dream Status by college where the Company CTC is Rs. 5.00 LPA and above.
Super dream status can be assigned to a company based on the salary offered, company’s global presence and status. This status will be assigned to the companies at the discretion of the Placement Cell. The names of companies who satisfy these criteria will be declared to the students and all eligible students as per the company criteria can register.
The company reserves the right to modify its job profile in terms of number of posts and salary packages at any time during the placement process. The Placement Cell will not be held responsible for any of the modifications by the company. This type of issues will be discussed time to time and decision will be taken concerning all faculty and student placement coordinators.
Students should keep photo copies of Mark sheets, certificates, Pan Card and Aadhar Card or Passport, 2 Passport size photographs and a hard copy of resume and other required documents during the recruitment process with them. (Students can upload their required documents on their personal Google drive).

Internship Cell
Internships are educational and career development opportunities, providing practical experience in a field or discipline. They are structured, short-term, supervised placements often focused around particular tasks or projects with defined timescales. An internship may be compensated, non-compensated or some time may be paid. The internship has to be meaningful and mutually beneficial to the intern and the organization. It is important that the objectives and the activities of the internship program are clearly defined and understood.

Internship Cell Objectives
Exposure to the industrial environment, which cannot be simulated in the classroom and hence creating competent professionals for the industry, Provide possible opportunities to learn, understand and sharpen the real time technical / managerial skills required at the job, Exposure to the current technological developments relevant to the subject area of training.

Benefits to the Industry
Availability of ready to contribute candidates for employment, Year round source of highly motivated pre-professionals, Students bring new perspectives to problem solving.

In-house Internships (within the college), Internship offered by faculty member (Inter/Intra-department), Bloombox, Software Development Cell (SDC)Mega Projects (Orion / Onyx / Robocon etc),Workshops / Training Programs organized by College / Departments / Student’s CouncilsParvaahLibrary / Department / Institute / Campus administration, Any other internship approved by concerned authorities, External Internships (Outside the college)

HOME AWAY FROM HOMECelebrate life by experiencing a diverse environment of food & people! at Somaiya, we make sure students from all cultural background feel at home. The diversity of the students prepares you to make the world a better place. No matter what is your food preference or your culture, Somaiya is committed to give you the best environment for your studies.

SAY HELLO TO YOUR IDEAS Somaiya Vidyavihar encourages start-ups owing to an innovative India, We have a set of industry’s finest business experts who mentor the start-ups proposed by the students at Somaiya. Till date, there have been 45+ star-ups which have created 200+ jobs by raising $1 million+ funds.

A FIT MIND IS A HOME TO GREAT IDEAS.Who doesn’t like sports? Sports form the basis of our health. Apart from the physical advantages, playing any kind of sport also uplifts a person mentally and emotionally. It’s a complete energy booster! Participating in sports and other recreation activities in the campus is an amazing way to uplift your mood and destress.

Team Onyx India
Team Onyx India, the aero design club of K J Somaiya College of Engineering, are a group of enthusiasts who have a passion for all things related to the world of aviation. By participating in various aeromodelling competitions, the team gets to expand their pool of knowledge and test various technical, analytical skills by validating research. Following the motto of “Aiming for the Sky”, the team’s passion for all things related to aviation and desire to enrich student educational experience has brought them success.
